and you
of man prophesy to the mountains of
Israel and say Oh mountains of Israel
hear the word of the Lord thus says the
Lord God because the enemy has said of
you
aha the ancient heights have become our
position therefore prophesy and say thus
says the Lord God because they made you
desolate and swallowed you up on every
side so that you became the possession
of the rest of the nations and you were
taken up by the lips of talkers and
slandered by the people therefore o
mountains of Israel hear the word of the
Lord God thus says the Lord God to the
mountains the hills the rivers of the
valleys the desolate wastes and the
cities that have been forsaken which
became plunder and mockery to the rest
of the nations all around therefore thus
says the Lord God surely I have spoken
in my burning jealousy against the rest
of the nations and against all Edom who
gave my land to themselves as a
possession with wholehearted joy and
spiteful minds in order to plunder its
open country therefore prophesy
concerning the land of Israel and say to
the mountains the hills the rivers and
the valleys thus says the Lord God
behold I have spoken in my jealousy and
my fury because you have borne the shame
of the nation's therefore thus says the
Lord God I have raised my hand in an
oath that surely the nations that are
around you shall bear their own shame
but you o mountains of Israel you shall
shoot forth your branches and yield your
fruit to my people Israel for they are
about to come for indeed I am for you
and I will turn to you and you shall be
tilled and so I will multiply men upon
you all the house of Israel all of it
and the city shall be inhabited and the
ruins rebuilt I will multiply upon you
man and beast and they shall increase
and bare young
I will make you inhabited as in former
times and do better for you than at your
beginnings then you shall know that I am
the Lord
yes I will cause men to walk on you my
people Israel they shall take possession
of and you shall be their inheritance no
more shall you believe them of children
thus says the Lord God because they say
to you you devour men and bereaved your
nation of children therefore you shall
devour men no more nor bereaved your
nation anymore says the Lord God nor
will I let you hear the taunts of the
nations anymore nor bear the reproach of
the peoples any more nor shall you cause
your nation to stumble anymore says the
Lord God
moreover the word of the Lord came to me
saying son of man when the house of
Israel dwelt in their own land they
defiled it by their own ways and deeds
to me their way was like the uncleanness
of a woman in her customary impurity
therefore I poured out my fury on them
for the blood they had shed on the land
and for their idols with which they had
defiled it so I scattered them among the
nation's and they were dispersed
throughout the countries I judged them
according to their ways and their deeds
when they came to the nations wherever
they went they profaned my Holy Name
when they said of them these are the
people of the Lord and yet they have
gone out of his land but I had concern
for my Holy Name which the house of
Israel had profaned among the nations
wherever they went
therefore say to the house of Israel
thus says the Lord God I do not do this
for your sake o house of Israel but for
my holy name's sake which you have
profaned among the nations wherever you
went and I will sanctify my great name
which has been profaned among the
nations which you have profaned in their
midst and the nations shall know that I
am the law
when I am Hallowed in you before their
eyes for I will take you from among the
nations gather you out of all countries
and bring you into your own land then I
will sprinkle clean water on you
and you shall be clean I will cleanse
you from all your filthiness and from
all your idols I will give you a new
heart and put a new spirit within you I
will take the heart of stone out of your
flesh and give you a heart of flesh I
will put my spirit within you and cause
you to walk in my statutes and you will
keep my judgments and dothey then you
shall dwell in the land that I gave to
your father's you shall be my people and
I will be your God I will deliver you
from all your unclean Lass's I will call
for the grain and multiply it and bring
no famine upon you and I will multiply
the fruit of your trees and the increase
of your fields so that you need never
again bear the reproach of famine among
the nations
then you will remember your evil ways
and your deeds that were not good and
you will loathe yourselves in your own
sight for your iniquities and your
abominations not for your sake do I do
this says the Lord God let it be known
to you be ashamed and confounded for
your own ways o house of Israel thus
says the Lord God on the day that I
cleanse you from all your iniquities
I will also enable you to dwell in the
cities and the ruins shall be rebuilt
the desolate land shall be tilled
instead of lying desolate in the sight
of all who passed by
so they will say this land that was
desolate has become like the Garden of
Eden and the wasted desolate and ruined
cities are now fortified and inhabited
then the nations which are left all
around you shall know that I the LORD
have rebuilt the ruined places and
planted what was desolate I the LORD
have spoken it and I will do it thus
says the Lord God I will also let the
house of Israel
inquire of me to do this for them I will
increase their men like a flock like a
flock offered as holy sacrifices like
the flock at Jerusalem on its feast days
so shall the ruined cities be filled
with flocks of men then they shall know
that I am the Lord
you
[Music]